to see that everything is working, testing,
testing. One, two, three, four, five, six, seven,
eight, nine, ten. This is Thursday morning,
October of the 30th, and I have the pleasure and
honor of chatting with John Sharp, whom I remember
as a fine, fine student leader here. to introduce
yourself to anyone who may listen or read this
material in the future. Describe your family
background. Where'd you grow up? Where'd you go to
high school? What did parents do? Introduce
yourself to them. I grew up in Placido, Texas,
population somewhat under 200, maybe somewhat
under 100. It's a little town in Victoria County,
just south of Victoria. There were two towns south
of Victoria, one Bloomington. And that's where
all the people lived that didn't want anybody to
know they drank whiskey. And Placido is where
everybody lived that had the whiskey stores. And
so the stores stayed open until quite late at night
to allow the folks in Bloomington to come over
without being seen. My father worked 38 years as a
gauger in the oil field for Magnolia and then later
Mobile Oil in the oil fields around Vanderbilt. My
mother was a teacher for nearly 30 years, fifth
grade teacher in Bloomington Elementary in
Placido. elementary school. My mother went to the
University of Texas. My father didn't go to
college. He was wounded in World War II in the
island of Leyte in the Philippines and was in the
battles of New Guinea. And my brother also didn't
go to college. My sister graduated from the
University of Texas and I'm the first of my family
to go anywhere other than the University of Texas,
including all cousins and everybody else. They
all went to the University of Texas. I was in high
school. Manuela Gutierrez one day just nominated
me for class president and nobody else was. And so I
became it and I guess got used to it. And so in high
school I was student body president in several
things. And which high school? Bloomington High
School, which is at the time, it would be 2A now, but
my graduating class, 52 kids. When I was 11 years
old, I will never forget it, my mother was very,
very insistent that at a very young age we decide
what we're going to be and bye George, all these
kids are going to go to college. And I remember I had
a lot of animals and including tons of pigeons. I
raised homing pigeons when I was just a little kid.
One of them got run over on the side of the road and
broke his wing. And I took a Popsicle stick and
stuck it together And it must not have been broken
very badly, because about eight weeks later, the
pigeon was flying again. And I can remember it as if
it was yesterday, because it is the reason I went to
A&M. The pigeon was flying. My mother, on her daily
insistence, I was watching the pigeon fly. The
pigeon's name was Pidge. I thought that was an
amazing deal. She did, too. And she said, you know,
you ought to be a veterinarian. And I said, OK, Mom.
suits me fine. I was 11 years old. I'll just be a
veterinarian. Where do I go to school to be a
veterinarian? She said, you have to go to a place
called Texas A&M University, which I've never
heard of or been to. And I said, great. Now that
that's settled, I can get on with fourth grade or
whatever I was in at the time. And she started
telling everybody, oh, John's going to go to A&M.
He's going to be an Aggie. And for Christmas, I
started getting these Aggie sweatshirts and
Aggie paraphernalia. By the time I was in high
school, that was a very foregone conclusion. And
that's where I was going. Still had never seen the
place. My teacher my senior year was Mabel White,
whose son later was a congressman. His name was Joe
White from that area. W-Y-A-T-T. W-Y-A-T-T. And
he was a state representative that I eventually
replaced. And my mother taught him, and his mother
taught me. And she was the outstanding teacher of
the year in Texas when I was in high school. And she
came to me one day and she said, you don't want to be a
veterinarian. And I said, you're right, Ms.
White. I can't stand the sight of blood. I can't
believe I'm going to go somewhere and be a
veterinarian. She said, you should be in
government. She gave me this little test. And she
probably made it up. But anyway, the test said
that. And about that time, I came to A&M. I went to
the vet school with my father, my very first trip.
And first meal was at the Whataburger over here on
Highway 6. Went to see the veterinarian. He said,
why do you want to be a veterinarian? And I said,
well, I guess because they make a lot of money. And
he said, you don't want to be a veterinarian
because you're not going to make very much money as
a veterinarian. And I said, works for me. I'm out of
here. It was literally like that. I said, Mrs.
Wyatt was right. And so I became a liberal arts
major. And then Gary Halter. was my advisor, who
remains a good friend, and he talked me into
majoring in political science later on. The
Corps, I didn't know anything about the Corps. I
mean, I knew nothing about anything, but on that
trip, I noticed I saw a whole bunch of uniforms, and
there was a bunch of signs of people running for
office, and I was kind of interested in all that
kind of stuff. And on the way back, we picked up a
hitchhiker who was in uniform and had a little
Aggie maroon and white bag. And we get him in the
car, me and a guy named Mike Olson, who came here one
year and then didn't make it and went to some other
school, I think ANI or someplace after his grade.
And I asked that guy, I said, what is this core
thing? And he said, you are just going to love it. So
it is just great. I said, you know, my mother was in a
fraternity, a sorority, and all my uncles and all,
they thought that was a lot of fun. I said, this is
ten times better than fraternity. If you want to be
anything at A&M, you've got to be in the Corps. And I
said, well, you just talked me into it. And I was
literally filling out the little form, and I just
checked Corps. And so that's how I wound up at A&M. I
wish I could say, yeah, I was, you know, huge family
background, and boy, they are all, you know, ten
generations of Aggies, but it wasn't true. It was a
pigeon. Alright, so you enrolled in the fall of
1968. Describe
that coming up here. Who brought you? What stuff
did you bring with you? You're not going to believe
this story. This story probably shouldn't be in
the archives, but you're looking at the only kid
that brought a fishing pole to fish camp.
That's marvelous. I knew so little about it. I
showed up at the YMCA. This guy in the car said we
should go to fish camp because you're going to
learn an awful lot there. I met at the YMCA. My dad
gave me a hug, dropped me off at the YMCA, and left.
And there was this crowd of people. I'm going, what
in the world is this? I must have looked real lost.
And a guy named Chris Shaw, who you might have
known. He and Capron were good friends. He was
pretty active in student government and SCONA and
some of that stuff. He was one of Wayne Stark's
boys, you know. And he came over and he said, you
look kind of lost. Where are you from? I told him,
Placido. He said, I'm from Garwood. And we became
instant friends. He was the first guy that I met.
And so we went to fish camp. Turns out when we get to
fish camp, the family that owns the land there was,
I forget their name. I think their name was Giles.
Anyway, she was my teacher. She was my English
teacher in high school. It turns out that she was
walking around there. I said, what are you doing
here? Now, fish camp was held up near Palestine.
Palestine. And so anyway, we went through fish
camp and then Best thing I ever did. I mean, I would
recommend it highly to every kid that can because
it gave me a sense of what everything was about and,
you know, kind of put it all in perspective. When
you came to stay, what other stuff did you bring in
addition to the fishing pole? Oh, I brought the
stuff. I brought the stuff that they told me, you
know, they, you know, foot locker full of, you
know, all the stuff. So that was pretty easy. It was
everything. I do remember, though, dragging that
footlocker down the hall and I was still a high
school Harry, you know, hadn't been taken to the
level that you're supposed to be as a fish, you
know. And I remember dragging it down the hall and
this guy said, he kept hollering, Fish Jones, Fish
Jones. And I knew he wasn't talking to me and my
name's not Jones. And then eventually I figured
out he was talking to me, but that was the wrong
name. So I turned around and said something like,
hey, Frank, how you been? He said,
blankety-blank, my name's not Frank, and so my
name's not Jones either. And he turned out to be the
first sergeant of the outfit, so we got off to a real
good start.
Did, as your parents left, did they give you any
advice? Well, my mother didn't come up. She said
her goodbyes at home. No, my dad's real quiet. He
just, you know, he drove me up there, left me off at
the YMCA building. That may have been, except when
he was dating my mother, the only time he was on a
college campus. I mean, he had never, except for
that first trip in the spring, you know, when we
came up and learned about the corps and
everything. That was only his second trip and he
dropped me off at the YMCA and wanted to get the heck
out of the traffic and get back to Placido, Texas.
Alright, how did you get from the YMCA to whatever
outfit? Well, we went to fish camp from there and
then when we got back from Palestine they had
assigned us all outfits and we were all in Do you
have any idea how you came to be assigned to the
outfit you were in? Any reason for it? Yeah,
because I had put down veterinary medicine and
everybody in the outfit, in the spring I put down
veterinary medicine and everybody in the outfit
was agriculture. Everybody was agriculture
except me. And by that time I'd already changed to
liberal arts so I was in an outfit with ag-eco
majors and agronomy majors and all those guys were
from ranching families from the country as I was,
but I was the only fish that was something other
than an agriculture major. And what outfit was it?
Squadron 6. Did it have a nickname? Savage 6.
Savage 6. Flying Tigers. Flying Tigers. I bought
the last six t-shirts. They abolished it several
years ago, I think, because of grades. The day
before they abolished it, I came down and bought
the last six t-shirts Lupo had. I still have them
for What was it like in the first few weeks to be a
fish? Oh, horrible. Describe. I thought I'd
landed on another planet. I just said, who are
these people? Oh, it was just, you know, it is one of
those things I'm real glad I did. Whether or not you
would show me those circumstances again and I
would go back and do that again, I hope I would have
the courage to do it again. But the physical part, I
didn't mind. It was the mental part. stuff that was
the toughest, you know, somebody screaming at you
all the time. As you look back though, this is the
best thing that ever happened to me because the
core really does have the system down. You know,
you heard a bunch of people say, oh, they did away
with paddling or they did away with, you know,
physical hazing or getting them up at 2 o'clock in
the morning and running to the airport. That
didn't matter. That isn't the stuff that trained
you. What trained you was you took all these high
school heroes like me, most of which were
something in high school or football stars or
something like that, and took us down to a level
that weighed down, just stripped us of all
pretenses and pride and everything. and then
allowed us to work our way up as sophomores and
juniors and seniors. And it was, it's some of the
best leadership, it's the best leadership
formula I've seen. And I think that's why so many
people come out of their, not just excelling in the
military, but excelling in business, you know,
Whatever they get in. You had a fish-hole lady in a
room. Describe who that was and what your room was
like. What was in your freshman room? Just four
walls and a window and a little heater at the end. I
had several.
I had, my first roommate was a guy named Johnson.
but he was gone after the first semester. His
grades got real bad and he was gone. And then my next
roommate was a guy, a good guy named Glenn Honaker.
Still Honaker. H-O-N-A-K-E-R from Fort
Stockton. He's now in charge of like the largest
pecan orchard that exists on the planet. I mean,
it's just huge. If you fly over to Fort Stockton,
you'll see all this greenery on one side, and
that's his pecan orchards, him and another guy.
And my last roommate was, before I went on core
staff, my last roommate was Chris Roberts, who
remains one of my very best friends, as does Glen.
And he's head of the Federal Land Bank near Lubbock
out there. And Chris is from Tohoka, which means
bad water. He lives in level land right now. And we
were roommates until my senior year. My senior
year, I was elected student body president and
chosen to be on as programs officer for core staff.
And my roommate there was Ray Kopecky, who was the
inspector general, little fireball from
Pasadena. that everyone in the Corps loved to hate
because he was Inspector General and would show up
at your doorstep at 6 o'clock in the morning.
During that first fall, were you a victim of what
today would be defined as hazing, and if so,
describe some of it.
Yeah, I thought hazing was getting up at 6 in the
morning with a whistle blowing in your ear. Yeah, I
mean, we had We had, it was all pretty good natured.
I mean, we, I learned how to do a couple hundred
pushups pretty quick that I never thought I could
do. And so we had to do that stuff. And yeah, if we
messed up bad enough, we'd go, we'd all have to go
out on the hall and, or in the steam showers or
something and, you know, grab butterflies, which
was not the best thing for your knees, I guess. And,
and. Any paddles used? Only. Only at the end of the
year when everybody knew this was a
rite of passage from being a fish to something
else. That's the only time when everybody kind of
agreed to it. We were a pretty cautious outfit. One
of the reasons for that is the first week we were
here we had an Air Force qualifying test. It wasn't
hazing. We had to run a mile for Air Force ROTC, and
in that mile, I was running along with a guy from
Hondo, one of the best guys in the world, named Tom
Stein, and I looked at him as we were going to the
finish line, and he was turning blue, and I looked
at him and I said, Tom, are you okay? And he got to the
finish line and died. It was the first death that
year on campus, and he died right next to me and our
first sergeant, Bill Hall, was the first one there
and tried to give him artificial you know,
respiration and it just didn't work. And he, so he
died with all of us looking at that. And aside from
the loss of Tom, it was the first silver taps that
year, aside from the loss of him, it was, you know,
everybody was in the back of their mind was saying,
well, what if they had just had us out, you know,
running because somebody did something. And that
I think weighed pretty heavily on those
upperclassmen's mind that whole year. And so we
didn't, we didn't, uh, There wasn't anything out
of the ordinary, I mean, I don't think. Let's go to
the child hall now as a freshman. Describe the
routine there. The routine there, that's my worst
place. I absolutely hated the place. And that is
one of the primary reasons that I became involved
in student government. Because after about two or
three weeks of that, I looked up the rules and said,
okay, how do you get out of this? I mean I got tired of
eating under the table and being screamed at while
I was eating. My food just didn't digest very well
while I was being screamed at. And so I would find
the Apollo Club that met breakfast on Monday and I
would find which club met on Tuesday and which club
met in the evening and by the time that first
semester was over with I was racking up lots of
points for the outfit in terms of the numbers of
clubs that I I joined. The chow hall was just
absolutely nerve-racking for me. I never ever got
used to it. And I would always find someplace to
eat. There was a 7-Eleven or something over here
and I'd go over there and get a piece of bologna and
cheese and eat that and go to my meeting. And I lost
27 pounds my freshman year, my first semester. I'm
not a big fan of Duncan Dining Hall. Did you and your
buddies ever attempt any pranks that freshman
year in the child hall?
No, not in there. We kept ours at other places. What
about some of that good bull? Well, we
had one of the guys in my outfit that lived across
the hall from me. We used to always say we were
roommates, but we never were roommates. It was
Rick Perry. We were in the same outfit. And one of
the things that happened that I'm sure we'll all
deny is we had this one particular upperclassman
that was a real jerk. And everybody knew he was a
jerk. And we knew if we did something to him, nobody
would get too mad. And so Rick found some M80s
somewhere. Some what? M80s, big firecrackers,
just a little short of dynamite, I guess. And we
discovered that if you go up to the second floor
above the bathrooms, that they were all linked
together. All four floors of the bathrooms were
linked together. And if you dropped that lit, it
would stay lit, and flushed it, that it would
explode somewhere around the next one. And so my
job on that particular Saturday morning was to
because we knew he came in and read the paper on
usually stall number two and I sat there and waited
for him to come in he came in he sat down and I simply
held two fingers out for Mr. Perry who was above us
and I heard the flush above and I just kind of sat
there and watched and it literally vaulted him off
the camo Thank God the door was open because the
door flew open and he was laying there with his
underwear around his ankles on his all fours with
the newspaper broken around his neck. And I was
just sitting there, oh my God, we killed this poor
bastard. I mean, we killed this guy. And I just
left. I mean, I went up there and I just went to my
room and cowered in the corner. And Rick comes in
and said, how'd it work? I said, man, you just
wouldn't believe it. But it was a serious impact. I
mean, that water in a little inch and a half pipe all
coming out that one commode was awesome. It was one
of the more awesome displays of nature. So he
really wasn't hurt? Well, he wasn't hurt, no. But
he never, ever, ever figured out. But he never
changed. He always was like that. And so Christmas
time, Christmas time we did get some chickens. And
after he left, we had been in there doing push-ups,
and we took the door hinges out, and we put pencils
in there so that you could just kick it in and break
it, and he never noticed it. So he left for
Christmas. We stayed an extra few hours. And when
he did, we put four or five chickens in his room with
enough food to last a month and plenty of water and
stuff like that. And you can imagine what his room
looked like when he got back. It was not very
pretty. Where did you all get the chickens?
Somewhere over in... In Poulter Science? No, we
actually went and got them from some farmer around
here, I think toward Milliken, somewhere like
that. You mean y'all bought them? Oh yeah, we paid
good money for those chickens, a buck or two
apiece. An honest cash transaction. Oh yeah, we
didn't steal the chicken. That's good. What was
special about, as you look back, what was special
about those chickens? though you were praising
the Corps, what did those first two or three years
do to you and your personality that were
important? Well, I think what the Corps does is it
teaches you, it operates on the theory of in order
to be a leader, you've got to know what it feels like
to be led. And I think that's what I think that right
there is what makes it special. All the other stuff
is kind of side benefits. You get to make long
lasting friends that are going to be your friends
forever and ever. And the closeness and the
camaraderie in the spirit. I think the Corps has a
special role. If you had asked me back then, if you
had told me in 1972 on the day that I graduated in May
that, you know, this school is going to be 50,000
kids and 2,000 or less are going to be in the core.
You think they'll still stand up for football
games? You think they'll still do all, have
midnight yell practice? I said, in no way in the
world that would exist. And the fact that that is
just as strong or stronger than it ever has been
before, I think is a testament to the kind of kids
that come here, but I think it also is a testament to
the core maybe kind of keeps the fire stoked and and
stuff and as part of it uh academics uh you you know
you gradually you gradually shifted or or you
shifted from veterinary medicine well i never
never never never signed up for veterinary
medicine so that you shifted over the summer you
registered the first semester liberal arts as
liberal arts And do you remember some courses that
first fall?
Courses and or instructors or advisors? My
favorite political science professor was Gary
Halter. I thought he was really good. I liked his
courses a lot. I didn't get into his until I was into
my sophomore year and stuff like that. But my best
course, funny you should ask this, that I did the
worst in was American history. And we had this
professor that had this unbelievable
photographic memory of the Civil War. And it was so
fascinating. And I'm not saying this because this
professor is in the room. But it was so fascinating
that I never took a note. I sat in the back of the
class. I remember that class specifically. I sat
in the back of that class. just mesmerized at how in
the hell does this guy remember the dates and stuff
of all this stuff. And we would look at each other
and we refought the Civil War right there in that.
And I never had any of that in high school, you know.
And that was the best course I took at A&M. It really
was high school. And there's lots of kids that will
say the same thing. Best course I took. But I think I
got a D in it. I never took a note and I could not
remember those damn dates that you were always
asking for on the test.
And trivia, was Rick in that same section? I don't
know. I don't know if he was or not. Probably, I
don't know. It was a required course, wasn't it?
Everybody had to take History 1, but there were
many sections. I don't know. This is a big, big...
There must have been 300 kids in this thing. I think
I had both of y'all in class. I'm not sure, but I
think I did. Probably so. That would have been our
freshman, sophomore year freshman, maybe?
Probably freshman. Freshman, yeah. Because that
was normal for a liberal arts, you know, kind of the
general. Do you remember? It was American
history, right? Yeah, yeah. Do you remember how
many hours you normally took per semester? A heck
of a lot more than my kids taking now. I mean, I took
18 and it wasn't any big deal. I graduated on time,
but the only way I graduated on time was I went to a
couple of summer schools. And now my son, who is
going to the wrong school, UT, TU, you know those
kids take 12 hours and 14 hours and if they get past
15 they go, oh my God, we're going to stress these
kids out and they can't make it anymore. But I, you
know, I'm wondering if one semester I didn't take
21, but I knew I took 18 many different times.
Describe Particularly your freshman year if you
can. But what was the typical routine for you on a
class day? What time did you get up? What did you do?
When? I guess the whistle started blowing at, I
don't know, I guess it was damned early. It seemed
like to me six, I'm guessing.
would put on a uniform, double-check each other,
make sure there weren't any smudges. Did you have
any upperclassmen's room you had to care for that
fish year? No. And then I went out on the hall to be in
the squad that you were in, and then some, you know,
sophomore comes by. We use nice terms for the
archives. Some sophomore would come by, check us
all, scream as all of us. We were fortunate in my
squad that we had this one kid named Merritt, I
don't think he was there after the first semester.
But he just delighted in wearing white socks with
his uniform. And they screamed at him all the time.
And he just loved it. I was not one that was big on
loving that. But they screamed at him most times.
So anyway, we'd go out there. They'd inspect us,
ask us a lot of questions, ask us what was on the
inscription on Guyon Hall, the inscription on
Lawrence Sullivan Ross, all this kind of stuff,
the definition of a freshman, all this kind of
stuff, all of which I still remember. and then went
out into formation in the quad. Corps staff walked
by. We marched to Mourning Child, did that bit,
came back, cleaned up your room, got it ready for
inspection in case somebody was going to come by.
And then went to class. And for the first semester
of our fish year, we were required to come back for
noon. They did away with that because classes just
didn't start matching after the first semester,
which I thought was great. One more time, I didn't
have to go in that place. And usually we'd go to
class until then, and then I would always have some
meat that night. At the end of my freshman year, a
bunch of guys in the outfit, there was a guy named
Kirby Brown, who is now the Director of Public
Relations for Parks and Wildlife, was a fish class
president then. Some guys in my outfit came to me
and some upperclassmen said, hey, you ought to run
for sophomore class president. I said, what makes
you think I'm uniquely qualified to do that? And he
said, well, your name, Sharp, you can do so much
with it. And I said, yeah, you know, I bet that's
right. You know, everybody's always asking me,
are you Sharp, Chris Sharp, and all this kind of
stuff? He said, yeah, you've got a great name. And
so there were four or five people running. So I put
my name in, and we printed up a bunch of signs that
said, look Sharp, think Sharp, vote Sharp. And we
plastered them all over the corps. Didn't put them
anywhere else. You know, I don't know if anybody
else voted for me on the civilian side. But then
won. And then in that, then got to know Caperton and
Lane Cruz and all of those folks. That was kind of a
whole new world because I was also in the student
senate at the time. And then at the end of my
sophomore year, ran for student life chairman,
which I guess, I don't know if they still have that
or not. It's kind of a cabinet deal. And then, and
Roger Miller was student body vice president, who
was real close to Kent. And Roger and I met once a
week and told each other we wouldn't run against
each other. Both of us knew the line. And then when
the time came, sure enough, Roger and I ran against
each other for student body president. And Roger
made one very terrible mistake, and that is the
week before the election, we were both being
interviewed by the battalion. And they asked
Roger, I said, Roger, would you be willing to
consider any alternatives to the bonfire? And
Roger, being the open-minded kind of guy that he
is, said, well, yeah, I'd consider some
alternatives. And they asked me, and I said, well,
of course not. That's heresy. Wouldn't do it and
all this kind of stuff. And that was it. I mean, I
could have gone fishing that last week because it
was over with then. Do you remember what the margin
was in the election? It was pretty serious. I mean,
the Corps was really being sensed. The Corps and
Walton Hall and Hart Hall and all those people.